[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> But I really never intended
to study functional medicine.
I didn't know about it.
I never heard about it.
And then I got struck with
a catastrophic illness
when I was 36,
about 20 years ago.
And doctor, after doctor,
after doctor, and no answers.
And took a while, but I
found the functional medicine
community and
discovered that there's
a whole new way of
thinking about disease
that got to the root cause.
So I began to sort of peel
the onion of why I was sick.
And the root of it
was mercury toxicity
from living in China for a year.
And as I began to fix
that, my chronic fatigue
symptoms, my
autoimmunity, my gut
problems, my cognitive
impairment all got better.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I mean the food industry is
driving most of our health care
crisis, our economic crisis,
even our environmental crisis,
by the way we produce, and
grow, and process, and eat food.
And that is the
fundamental question
that really nobody is tackling
at high levels of government.
There's a social movement around
understanding the role of food
in these processes and diseases.
You know, there's a
fundamental disconnect
between our understanding of
the role of food and disease
and the action that's
taken by governments,
and professional
organizations, and physicians
in actually dealing
with the drivers of most
of the disease we see today in
America and around the world
increasingly.
Diabetes, obesity,
heart disease,
they're all driven by our
food and our food system.
And the plethora of processed
food, the industrialization
of food, the commodities
that are produced
in this country and around the
world, corn, soy, rice, flour,
gluten, dairy, these
are all driving so much
of the chronic illness
in this country.
In fact, government
food programs,
if you're part of
those government food
programs in America, you are far
more likely to be overweight,
diabetic, obese, have
more cholesterol,
blood sugar because
of the food you're
eating that's been provided by
the government food programs.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It's frightening.
I mean, Pepsi makes Gatorade.
And they market it as a health
drink, or as a sports drink,
or a hydration drink.
And there's a few
electrolytes in there.
But it's high
fructose corn syrup.
It's dyes.
And some of them have
transfats in them.
It's pretty frightening when
you look at the composition
of these sports
drinks and actually
what they're doing to our kids.
If you are an athlete and
you're running a marathon,
OK, maybe there's a role for it.
But if you're an average kid,
running around the basketball
court, and you have
Gatorade and you
drink one of those big
liters of Gatorade,
there's basically
tens of teaspoons
of sugar in those that is
driving so much of the disease
we see in America.
Why are kids overweight?
Why are kids
struggling in school?
Why our kids having health
issues, academic issues,
depression issues?
It's really driven from
the food they're eating.
And these sports drinks seem
like they're a health food.
But they're actually one of
the worst things on the market.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
America is one of the only
countries in the world, that
is a developed country, that
is allowing unrestricted food
marketing to children.
And the worst foods
have the most marketing.
50 countries regulate and
restrict food marketing to kids
because we know these
kids at two years old
can recognize foods by
brands and call them out.
We know that they don't
understand what commercials are
and what's real or not until
they're eight years old.
And these are imprinting
on these kids, these foods
and these brands,
that are driving
family choices, that are
driving these kids to be sick.
And I think it's really one of
the most harmful policies we
have in America.
And unfortunately,
the food lobby
has hijacked Congress
and the White House,
that allows these
policies to continue.
The food labeling confuses
and confounds people.
The dietary guidelines
confuse and confound people.
And those guidelines and
those food labeling laws
are driven through the
food lobby, unfortunately.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Yeah, we know that there are
really clear policies that
change behavior.
Michael Bloomberg tried to
address this in New York City
with taxing large sodas.
He tried to get a sugar tax.
He couldn't pass it through.
Philadelphia passed a sugar tax.
Berkeley passed a sugar tax.
Mexico has passed a sugar tax.
And we know that those
are effective in reducing
obesity and preventing disease.
So we actually have
evidence that these work.
And then at scale, they can
have an impact on choice,
just like we tax smoking.
In fact, sugar is
the new tobacco.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
This whole idea that sugar
is OK, and carbs are OK,
and fat is bad came
out of the '60s.
And it wasn't by accident.
There was a movement
by the sugar industry
and the lobby to actually vilify
fat and to exonerate sugar.
And they hired two
scientists from Harvard,
paid them the equivalent of
$50,000 in today's dollars,
to write a review of
the research at the time
because sugar was being
implicated in heart disease.
And they wanted to
discredit that theory.
And based on that article,
published in "The New England
Journal" in 1967,
science for hire,
they were actually
able to catalyze
this movement of low
fat, high carbs, that's
driven our obesity epidemic.
And if you look at
the obesity rates
after the dietary
guidelines came in 1980,
it's a hockey stick up
in obesity and diabetes.
There has been a
seven-fold increase
in the rate of diabetes
since 1980 around the world.
And it's because of
the plethora of sugar.
And now we have about
152 pounds of sugar
per person consumed
in America per year
and about 146 pounds of flour.
That's about a pound a
day of sugar and flour
for every man, woman, and child.
And our bodies are just
not adapted to that.
And when you take out the
fat, you put in the sugar.
And the fat actually,
as we now know,
it doesn't make you fat because
food is not just calories.
And fat has more calories
than carbs or protein.
Food is information.
And when you eat the
right information,
it turns on the right signals.
When you eat sugar and carbs,
it turns on fat storage.
It slows down your metabolism.
And it makes you hungry.
When you eat more fat,
it cuts your hunger.
It speeds up your metabolism.
And it releases fat
from the fat cells.
In fact, if you
eat, for example,
a diet high in fat, let's say,
60% fat, 20% carbs versus 60%
carbs, 10% fat, same
calories, the people
who eat the higher fat diet
will have a metabolism that
brings 300 calories more a day.
That's like running
an hour a day.
That would solve the
entire obesity epidemic
if people switched their diets
and got off of starch and sugar
and ate more good quality fat.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Sure, I know Tom Brady.
And we've had many
conversations about food.
In, fact he's one of
the very few sports
legends who's not sold
out to the food industry.
And if you look at the kinds
of commercials and advertising
he does, it has nothing
to do with sugar,
or processed food, or fast
food, unlike many sports
figures who capitalize on
the food industry's desire
to hijack them for their ends.
And Tom has been a
man of integrity.
And he's called out what
he sees as the truth, which
is that sugar is, in the way its
delivered to Americans, a drug.
That it actually, the processed
food we sell our kids,
is hurting them
and killing them.
And for him to stand
up with his credibility
and say, yes, we
need to stop this,
I think it's a good thing.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
For 30 years, I've
been looking at the gut
in functional medicine.
It's the foundation
of how we treat people
with chronic illness
because we've
understood that the gut flora
and damage to the gut lining,
what we call leaky gut, is
driving so much disease.
And I was just in
a conference call
"Exponential Medicine," where
one of the leading thinkers
talked about his gut
microbiome and how
he discovered that so
much of autoimmune disease
is driven through problems
with the gut microbiome.
So we know it's really
instrumental in creating
health.
And when we are
born by C-section,
when we are not breastfed, when
we've overused antibiotics,
when we eat sugar
and processed foods,
when we don't need
fiber, when we
don't eat real
whole foods that are
based on plant foods that
are driving healthy gut
microbiomes, we get sick.
And now we're beginning to
have the science catch up
with this observation
in functional medicine.
And we are now
seeing a revolution
in our approach to
these chronic illnesses
by dealing with the gut first
and helping people heal.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The reason gluten is a problem
today is because the wheat
we're eating is not the wheat
we ate/ it's not the bread
of our ancestors.
It's been modified
through hybridization
to create a super
strain of wheat
called dwarf wheat,
which has many more
proteins that
create inflammation,
that are gluten proteins.
It also has a much
higher starch content.
In fact, two
tablespoons of sugar
raises your blood sugar
less than two slices
of whole wheat bread.
So we now know that the
kind of wheat we're eating
is very inflammatory,
that we know that this
can disrupt the gut lining.
Because of all
these other factors,
it's catalyzed this problem.
So 50 years ago, they had
blood samples on 10,000 people,
looking at celiac disease.
And they compared it to a blood
sample of 10,000 people today.
And there was a real increase
of 400% in celiac disease.
So this is not a fad.
This is a real phenomenon that's
a result of the increasing
rates of C-sections,
the use of antibiotics,
the lack of breastfeeding,
the processed food,
and the chronic stresses
environmental toxins,
all colluding to
drive disruptions
in the gut function,
which allows the gluten
to actually break
through and create
the systemic inflammation.
So if you have any inflammatory
condition or really
any chronic condition,
gluten should
be at the top of your list
in thinking about why?
Whether it's an autoimmune
disease, digestive disorders,
depression, neurologic
issues, many of these things
are driven through gluten.
And by doing an
elimination diet,
you can often see the impact.
And we've seen athletes like
Djokovic, who's actually
accelerated his
career by removing
inflammatory foods like
gluten, and dairy, and sugar.
And seeing him go
from near the bottom
of the pile of
professional tennis players
to number one and unbeatable.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So there's a spectrum
of reactions to foods,
from all the way
from a mild reaction,
we might have a little stomach
upset or a little inflammation,
all the way to full-blown
autoimmune disease.
So in medicine we tend to
think of things as on or off.
You have them or you don't.
The truth is the body's
more complex than that.
And reactions to gluten
can be along a spectrum.
And anywhere along that
spectrum can create symptoms.
And create cognitive
issues, digestive issues,
immune issues.
And if you're
really unlucky, you
might have full-blown
celiac disease.
What I would
recommend is anybody
who thinks they have any chronic
issues, to do a short-term diet
elimination.
It could be like my 10-day
detox diet, which is 10 days.
Or it could be a 21-day program.
You just should stop the foods
that are driving inflammation
and see the difference
in how you feel.
There's no better doctor
in the world than your body
to tell you what
works or doesn't work.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Well, the truth is there is
no such thing as junk food.
There's only junk
and there's food.
And the foods that we're
eating today are not real food.
They're food-like substances.
They're manufactured, processed,
extruded, colored, dyed foods,
that if you actually
cover the label
on the front of the
package on most foods
and you read the label, you
won't be able to actually tell
what it is.
Can you tell the Twinkie by
looking at the ingredient list?
You cannot.
But if it's an avocado,
it's just an avocado.
So essentially what
I recommend to people
is eat foods that don't have
nutrition fact labels, that
don't have ingredient list,
and that don't have a barcode
because they're just food.
An avocado doesn't have
an ingredient list.
An almond doesn't have
a nutrition facts label.
And eggs don't have a barcode.
They're just food.
So it's really not complicated.
I do programs in large churches.
I make it very simple.
I say, leave the
food that man made,
eat the food that God made.
And any kindergarten
kid can understand that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So food is information.
And that means that the
quality and the type of food
you're eating has a huge
impact on your gene expression,
your hormones, your
metabolism, your gut
flora, your immune system.
And it happens with every bite.
So when you look at fat,
they're not all created equal.
Sugar is sugar is sugar.
But fats are quite diverse.
You can have really good quality
fats, like omega-3 fats, that
are essential.
You can have
monounsaturated fats,
that have been shown to reduce
heart attacks, like olive oil,
and nuts, and seeds.
And you can have
refined vegetable oils,
which are very inflammatory.
These were not consumed by
humans a hundred years ago.
They are highly refined.
They're extracted with hexane,
and chemicals, and heat.
And they sometimes
are deodorized,
which creates all these
chemical byproducts.
As well as this
refining of these oils
that have allowed us to consume
a thousand times more soybean
oil, for example, than we
did a hundred years ago.
And our bodies just don't
know what to do with that.
And it creates this
imbalance in the fatty acids.
And then there's transfats,
which are clearly
the worst fats on the planet,
which are manmade fats,
like Crisco,
shortening, margarine.
And these are designed to be
solid at room temperature.
They're vegetable oils
that are made to be
solid at room temperature.
And they have been
found to increase
the risk of heart attacks,
of obesity, diabetes,
maybe even cancers.
And really now been banned
by the FDA, Food and Drug
Administration, because
they're not considered,
quote, "safe to eat."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So one of the
controversial areas still,
everybody agrees that
omega-3 fats are good,
and avocados, and nuts and
seeds, and olive oil is good.
That transfats are bad.
Refined oils, most
people still agree
that they're bad, although some
still suggest they're good.
They only controversy
really is saturated fat.
And there really is no such
thing as saturated fat.
There are saturated fats.
And there's coconut oil,
which has lauric acid.
There is beef saturated
fats, so stearic acid.
There is dairy saturated
fats, which are margaric acid.
So that all these have
different properties and effects
on the body.
For example, large
trials now have
found that there's no link
between saturated fat and heart
disease.
There's no link between
total fat and heart disease.
And some studies even have
shown an inverse relationship.
For example, a study of
3,000 people, 15 years,
looking at their blood
levels of saturated fats
found that those with the
highest levels of dairy fat,
essentially butter in your
blood, had a 40% or 50%
reduction in their
risk of diabetes.
Another big review of butter,
for example, and looking
at 6 and a half
million patient years,
600,000 people over many,
many, many, many years,
found that those who had the
highest intakes of butter
had the lowest risk of diabetes.
And they had no increase in
their risk of heart attacks.
So we begin to look at the
changing nature of the data.
I don't think butter
is a health food.
But I also don't think
it should be vilified.
And as part of a healthy diet,
it can be very good for you.
In fact, it's only
bad-- and this
is really important-- it's
only bad if you're consuming it
along with starch and sugar.
So think ice cream.
Now, think bread and butter.
That's the problem.
It's not the saturated fat.
And if I had to choose
between a bagel and butter,
I would eat the butter.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So the foods that
your gut flora like
are mostly plant foods,
vegetables, nuts and seeds,
beans, whole grains, real
food, high fiber foods.
And even special fibers,
things like chia seeds,
flax seeds, prebiotic
types of foods,
inulin that comes from Jerusalem
artichokes, artichokes.
Various kinds of foods
that actually can help
fertilize the healthy bacteria.
And the more you eat of those,
the more healthy bacteria
you have.
The less sugar and
processed food you have,
the better your bacteria are.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So fermented foods
can be very healthy
if your gut is not too bad.
If you have yeast overgrowth,
if you had really bad gut flora,
it can be a challenge
to eat fermented foods.
But in an otherwise
healthy person,
eating more fermented foods
can be very effective.
Things like sauerkraut,
and kimchi, and miso,
and traditional foods that
have been around for centuries
can be very helpful for the gut.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I have a lot of
friends who are vegans.
And a lot of friends
who are paleo folks.
And I was sitting on a panel
with one vegan cardiologist
and a paleo doctor.
And I was in the middle.
I said, well, gee, if you're
paleo and you're vegan,
I must be a pegan.
And it was kind of a joke.
But then I realized that
it's exactly what we should
be eating, which is
mostly plant foods,
by volume; good quality fats;
healthy, sustainably raised
and humanely raised
animal foods,
whether it's grass-fed meets
or sustainably harvested
or farmed fish; whole
eggs that are farm eggs;
good fats, like nuts and
seeds; avocados, olive oil,
coconut oil.
Even grass-fed butters are fine.
Limiting too much
starch-- so grains are OK.
But gluten-free grains
are preferable, not
a lot of white rice,
and pasta, and bread;
but some whole grains, more as
a condiment than a main course.
Same thing with beans.
Dairy I think can be
problematic for many people.
I recommend limiting
that unless you
can get grass-fed goat cheese.
Sheep cheese are often better.
And then, really
then simple foods.
It's really just
the best quality
that you can possibly
get, that can
help you sustain your health.
And it doesn't actually
have to be that expensive.
It can be just real,
whole fresh foods.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
A hundred years ago, there were
very few environmental toxins
around.
There have been 80,000
new chemicals introduced
into our environment,
in our food supply,
over the last 100 years.
Most of those have not
been tested for safety.
For example, glyphosate is
now sprayed in all the wheat
that we eat, to defoliate
them before they harvest them.
So there's a high
concentration of glyphosate.
Or what we call Roundup
which is used on soybeans.
But that's been found
to affect gut flora.
Found to affect
oxidative stress,
and have other untoward effects.
It's been linked to cancer.
So we're exposed
to this plethora
of environmental toxins that
stresses our system, that
affects our gut, that affects
our immune system, that
affects our metabolism.
We now know that
these toxins have
been linked to obesity,
and diabetes, and cancer,
and heart disease.
So we really have to take a
serious look at the quality
of the food we're eating.
I encourage people to follow
some simple principles.
Filter your water if you can.
Eat only sustainably,
humanely raised,
organic grass-fed
animal products;
low mercury fish, things like
tuna, swordfish, halibut, sea
bass all contain higher
levels of mercury.
Eat the smaller fish.
And I called it the
smash fish, which
are salmon, mackerel, anchovies,
sardines, and herring.
And then in terms
of vegetables, know
there are ones that
are more contaminated
and ones that are less,
same thing with fruits.
And the Environmental Working
Group, where I'm on the board,
they've created very simple
lists of the Dirty Dozen.
Here's the 13 foods, and
fruits, and vegetables
that are the most contaminated.
You should buy
organic when you can.
Here's the 15, the Clean 15,
that are pretty safe to eat,
even if they're not organic.
They can save you money.
So really finding
some simple principles
around the choices you make
can make a profound impact
on lowering your risk.
We also have a
household cleaning guide
on the Environmental
Working Group.
What products you should
use that are safe to eat?
Skin deep, it's
about what products
you're putting on your skin.
You're putting paraben,
and lead in lipstick,
and all sorts of chemicals
that are in your skin
care products that
could be harming you.
So I encourage you to check
out the Environmental Working
Group's website, to look at
the food you should be eating.
things you'd be putting
on your skin, the things
you should be cleaning
your house with,
and how to reduce your
overall exposures.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Well, we now know that the
effect of stress on the body
is profound.
And even if you eat perfectly,
if you're chronically stressed,
you can create depressed
immune function.
You can cause a gut
disruption and leaky gut.
You can cause depression.
You can create
inflammation of the body.
And so techniques that help
the body to reset and restore
are critical.
That's one of the key
foundational principles
of functional medicine.
So in my practice,
I often recommend
people learn various
techniques that work for them,
whether it's yoga; whether
it's meditation, or prayer,
or nature experiences.
Personally, I find
meditation very powerful.
I think the literature
on it is profound
in terms of optimizing
gene expression,
regulating the immune system,
affecting the brain structure,
increasing neuroplasticity, the
connection between brain cells,
creating new brain
cells, increasing stem
cell production of the body.
So we know it's not just this
Eastern hokey pokey thing.
It actually has real
biologic effects
that transform your
health every day.
And for me, it's one of the
most powerful things I've
begun to do as a practice
because other than food
as medicine, and
exercise, it's probably
one of the most important levers
I found to create my own health
and to actually
help my patients.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I think the power of
the mind is staggering.
And in my own life,
I've been very clear,
when I have a pure
intention and I
set a goal that's
not self-serving,
that the universe conspires
to actually make it all happen
in remarkable ways that
I couldn't coordinate
or orchestrate on my own.
So I think that having
clear desires and intentions
about what you want to do
and how you want to do it.
If it's not just
about self-growth,
then it makes a difference.
I saw a fascinating
study recently
where they found
that people who acted
on an altruistic basis
versus self-serving basis,
doing good things in the world,
they had very different effects
on the immune system.
The people who did
things for others,
out of love in their
heart, versus self-serving,
they had a much better
immune response.
Versus people who
were self-serving,
they depressed
their immune system.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I think most people don't
realize that thoughts
are things, that they
have powerful impact
on our biology and our lives.
And that how you direct
your attention and your mind
determines the
course of your health
and the course of your life.
And once you have that
insight, then you're
going to stop playing the
tapes that are negative,
complaining, and not
serving the purpose
that you want in your life.
So it's a very simple
insight, but it
can have a profound
effect on the quality
of your health and your life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I mean, our ancient
reptile brain
is programmed to respond
with fear to danger.
That's a hard-wired response.
It protects us from
bad situations.
But most the time
fear obstructs us
because it's based on
our ego, on challenging
who we think we are.
And I think one of
the things that I
think I found for myself is
that I decided disidentify
with my ego in a
very active way.
So I don't take anything
personally, either good things
or bad things.
So people say to me, how
can you go on television
in front of 5 million people?
How do you go on stage
and not be nervous?
Because I feel like I'm
serving something much bigger
than myself.
And it's not about my
own ego gratification
or self-satisfaction.
And by having that idea that
the self that I think I am
is not really real, that
it's just a construct, then
it frees me up to do whatever
I want to do without fear.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I think Wim Hof has
basically tapped
as ancient science of
yoga breathing to catalyze
changing your biology.
And this is not a new thing.
These special powers have
been available to yogis
for centuries as a
spiritual practice.
And he's just catalyzed these
and shown that we actually
have much more control over our
biology than we think we have.
And I think it's a
really great insight
to empower people
to take control
of their lives and their health.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I think there's been a lot
of research on what makes
people happy and successful.
And it's not money.
It's not success.
It's not power.
It's actually connection,
relationships, and love.
And it's being part of a
greater community, that's
moving in a way that is actually
bringing good to the world.
And I think if you look at
populations that are happy,
they all have that in common.
And I think if you can connect
to that, to the meaning,
the purpose, the community,
love the people in your life,
I think that's the secret for
happiness and fulfillment.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I think people need to connect
with what matters to them.
Look at your own life, where
you came from, your family,
your friends, your
community, the things that
inspire you, and
connect to something
that's outside of you, in your
little, sort of small world.
And figure out how
to be part of that,
whether it's as a volunteer;
whether it's as a job;
whether it's an innovator,
an entrepreneur;
or being part of
a larger movement,
all those steps will
take you to a place
where you can actually engage
in the work you want to do.
And the truth is I never
set out to be famous.
I never set out
to be successful.
I never set out to
change the world.
Really, I just set out to do the
things that I thought mattered,
that I cared about.
They were driven off of my
own suffering and being sick.
So I used that to
catalyze what happened.
I went to Haiti
after the earthquake
and had this
traumatic experience.
And that catalyzed
my understanding
about the power of social
community to change behavior.
And that catalyst I
work with the church.
So these weren't
choices that I made
or the things that I set
out to do on purpose.
I just found the things
that actually mattered.
And I started focusing on
them, and then communicating
about them.
And sort of the rest
all just happens.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I think that if I
got a chance to have
a microphone to the
world for a minute,
I would encourage
people to connect
with the families, and
communities, and friends
around them and
actually find a way
to catalyze the power of
that for good in the world
because we are so
much better together.
We're so much better
as a community.
And we can actually
catalyze change
in any area that
matters in our lives.
So I think if I were to
sort of have a minute,
I would really say focus
on that because that
can help change poverty.
It can change the food system.
It can change politics.
It can change the health
of the communities.
And all those things can be
catalyzed by people working
together as a community.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The biggest threat facing
us today is invisible.
It's food injustice.
It's as a result of
the food policies
from our government
that are promoting
the production and the
growing of food commodities
that drive disease, and
our allowing of food
marketing to kids,
and our having
of subsidizations of sugar and
processed food, and food stamps
that by $4 billion worth of
soda a year for the poor.
There's so many examples of ways
in which our food policies are
driving disease.
They're driving poverty.
They're driving violence.
They're driving destruction
of our environment.
And they're even driving
damage to our economy.
So all of these things
have to be addressed.
And most people internalize
what they're eating.
They don't think
it's food injustice.
If you are an
African American, you
can't sit at a counter because
of the color of your skin.
People understand that.
But if you're targeted
by the food industry
and drinking two-liter
bottles of soda
and you think that's normal
as part of your diet,
that's internalized
food injustice.
And I think if we
actually, as a society,
step up and go,
hey, wait a minute,
we're not going to
take it anymore.
We have to look at the ways
in which the food industry is
driving behaviors,
and driving behaviors
through the production of food,
and the marketing of food,
and the food policies that
are promoting these things.
I think it can begin
to turn the tide
and get people to
understand that we
need to create a movement
to stop the food injustice.
It's harming our
communities, our families,
and even our social
fabric and our economy.
Most people don't
understand that what
you put at the end
of your fork is
more powerful than any drug
you'll find in a pill bottle.
That food is not just like
medicine, it is medicine.
Food is a better
drug than most drugs.
It works faster,
better, and it's cheaper
than any drug on the market.
And it has no side
effects, except good ones.
And I think most
physicians don't understand
that the food that
we're eating in American
and around the
world increasingly,
is driving most chronic disease.
That it can be cured by disease.
And yet doctors learn nothing
about food in medical school.
So we are in this
crisis point where
there's a disconnect
between our understanding
of the power of food as medicine
and the implementation of this
to solve our chronic
disease epidemic.
And that has to break down so
we can begin to shift the tide
and actually get the
health care system
to understand the power
of food as medicine.
[MUSIC PLAYING]